Process Monitors (#5576)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/monitor_types/process_check.md

---
title: Process Check Monitor
kind: documentation
description: "Check if a process is running on a host"
further_reading:
- link: "monitors/notifications"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure your monitor notifications"
- link: "monitors/downtimes"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Schedule a downtime to mute a monitor"
- link: "monitors/monitor_status"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Check your monitor status"
---

## Overview

> A process check monitor watches the status produced by `process.up` reported by the check in the Agent. At the Agent level you can [configure thresholds][1] based on the number of matching processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A process check monitor watches the status produced by the Agent check `process.up`. At the Agent level you can [configure your check thresholds][1] based on the number of matching processes.
```

## Monitor creation

To create a [process check monitor][2] in Datadog, use the main navigation: *Monitors --> New Monitor --> Process Check*.

### Pick a process

> From the drop-down list, select a process to monitor. Filter the list by entering search criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the drop-down list, select a process to monitor. Filter the list by entering your search criteria.
```

### Pick monitor scope

> Select the hosts to monitor by choosing host names, tags, or choose `All Monitored Hosts`.  Only hosts or tags reporting a status for the selected process are displayed. If you need to exclude certain hosts, use the second field to list names or tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the hosts to monitor by choosing host names, tags, or choose `All Monitored Hosts`.  Only hosts or tags reporting a status for the selected process are displayed. If you need to exclude certain hosts, use the second field to list names or tags:
```

Author: I don't think a colon is appropriate here.

* The include field uses `AND` logic. All listed host names and tags must be present on a host for it to be included.
* The exclude field uses `OR` logic. Any host with a listed name or tag is excluded.

### Set alert conditions

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Check Alert" %}}

A check alert tracks consecutive statuses submitted per check grouping and compares it to your thresholds. For process check monitors, the groups are static: `host` and `process`.

Set up the check alert:

1. Trigger the alert after selected consecutive failures: `<NUMBER>`

>     Each check run submits a single status of `OK`, `WARN`, `CRITICAL`, or `UNKNOWN`. Choose how many consecutive runs with the `WARN` and `CRITICAL` status trigger a notification. For example, your process might have a single blip where connection fails. If you set this value to `> 1`, the blip is ignored but a problem with more than one consecutive failure triggers a notification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Each check run submits a single status of `OK`, `WARN`, or `CRITICAL`. Choose how many consecutive runs with the `WARN` and `CRITICAL` status trigger a notification. For example, your process might have a single blip where connection fails. If you set this value to `> 1`, the blip is ignored but a problem with more than one consecutive failure triggers a notification.
```

No `UNKNOWN` status for this check: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/process/assets/service_checks.json#L6
